src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/use-cases/ssh/ssh-infrastructure-access.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: SSH with Access for Infrastructure (recommended)
sidebar:
  order: 2
  label: SSH with Access for Infrastructure
  badge:
    variant: tip
    text: New
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Badge, Render } from "~/components";

[Access for Infrastructure](/cloudflare-one/applications/non-http/infrastructure-apps/) uses the same deployment model as [WARP-to-Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/use-cases/ssh/ssh-warp-to-tunnel/) but unlocks more granular policy options and command logging functionality.
<Render file="access/short-lived-certs-intro" params={{ intro: "Furthermore, Access for Infrastructure replaces" }} />

## 1. Connect the server to Cloudflare

1. Create a Cloudflare Tunnel for your server by following our [dashboard setup guide](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/get-started/create-remote-tunnel/). You can skip the connect an application step and go straight to connecting a network.

2. In the **Private Networks** tab for the tunnel, enter the private IP address of your server (or a range that includes the server IP).

## 2. Set up the client

To connect your devices to Cloudflare:

1. [Deploy the WARP client](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/deployment/) on your devices in Gateway with WARP mode.
2. [Enable the Gateway proxy for TCP](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/proxy/#enable-the-gateway-proxy).
3. [Create device enrollment rules](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/deployment/device-enrollment/) to determine which devices can enroll to your Zero Trust organization.

## 3. Route private network IPs through WARP

<Render file="tunnel/warp-to-tunnel-route-ips" />

## 4. Add a target

<Render file="access/add-target" />

## 5. Add an infrastructure application

<Render file="access/add-infrastructure-app" />

## 6. Configure SSH server

Next, configure your SSH server to trust the Cloudflare SSH CA. This allows Access to authenticate using short-lived certificates instead of traditional SSH keys.

### Generate a Cloudflare SSH CA

<Render file="ssh/ssh-proxy-ca-note" />

To generate a Cloudflare SSH CA and get its public key:

<Render file="ssh/ssh-proxy-ca" />

### Save the public key
<Render file="ssh/public-key" />

### Modify your SSHD config
<Render file="ssh/modify-sshd" />

:::note
For certain distributions, such as Amazon Linux 1 (based on RHEL), the certificate file permissions must be set to `600`. You can set file permissions with the following command:

```sh
chmod 600 /etc/ssh/ca.pub
```
:::

### Restart your SSH server
<Render file="ssh/restart-server" />

## 7. Connect as a user

Users can use any SSH client to connect to the target, as long as they are logged into the WARP client on their device. If the target is located within a particular virtual network, ensure that the WARP client is [connected to that virtual network](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/private-net/cloudflared/tunnel-virtual-networks/#connect-to-a-virtual-network) before initiating the connection. Users do not need to modify any SSH configs on their device. For example, to SSH from a terminal:

```sh
ssh <username>@<target IP>
```

SSH with Access for Infrastructure also supports `scp` and `rsync` commands. At this time, `sftp` is not supported.

To learn more about user connections, refer to the [Access for Infrastructure documentation](/cloudflare-one/applications/non-http/infrastructure-apps/#4-connect-as-a-user).

## SSH command logs

SSH command logs contain the actual SSH commands that a user ran on the target. These logs are encrypted using a public key provided by the customer and are not visible to Cloudflare.

### Enable SSH command logging

<Render file="ssh/upload-ssh-key" params={{ note: "" }} />

### Disable SSH command logging

To turn off SSH command logging, delete your uploaded public key:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Dashboard">

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Settings** > **Network** > **SSH encryption public key**.

2. Select **Remove**.

3. Select **Remove key** to confirm.

Cloudflare will stop logging SSH commands to your targets, as well as any commands subject to [Gateway Audit SSH](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/network-policies/ssh-logging/) policies.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

To delete the SSH encryption public key using the [API](/api/operations/zero-trust-update-audit-ssh-settings):

```sh
curl --request PUT https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/audit_ssh_settings \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--data '{
  "public_key": ""
}'
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### View SSH logs

SSH command logs are not visible from the dashboard itself and must be exported and decrypted.

To manually retrieve logs:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Logs** > **Access**.
2. Select a user who was allowed to access the target.
3. Select **Download** to download the session's command log.
4. <Render file="ssh/decrypt-ssh-log" />

Commit message:

infra access supports public IPs

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/use-cases/ssh/ssh-infrastructure-access.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: SSH with Access for Infrastructure (recommended)
sidebar:
  order: 2
  label: SSH with Access for Infrastructure
  badge:
    variant: tip
    text: New
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Badge, Render } from "~/components";

[Access for Infrastructure](/cloudflare-one/applications/non-http/infrastructure-apps/) uses the same deployment model as [WARP-to-Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/use-cases/ssh/ssh-warp-to-tunnel/) but unlocks more granular policy options and command logging functionality.
<Render file="access/short-lived-certs-intro" params={{ intro: "Furthermore, Access for Infrastructure replaces" }} />

## 1. Connect the server to Cloudflare

1. Create a Cloudflare Tunnel for your server by following our [dashboard setup guide](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/get-started/create-remote-tunnel/). You can skip the connect an application step and go straight to connecting a network.

2. In the **Private Networks** tab for the tunnel, enter the IP address of your server (or a range that includes the server IP). Typically this would be a private IP, but public IPs are also allowed.

## 2. Set up the client

To connect your devices to Cloudflare:

1. [Deploy the WARP client](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/deployment/) on your devices in Gateway with WARP mode.
2. [Enable the Gateway proxy for TCP](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/proxy/#enable-the-gateway-proxy).
3. [Create device enrollment rules](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/deployment/device-enrollment/) to determine which devices can enroll to your Zero Trust organization.

## 3. Route server IPs through WARP

<Render file="tunnel/warp-to-tunnel-route-ips" params={{ one: "SSH server"}} />


## 4. Add a target

<Render file="access/add-target" />

## 5. Add an infrastructure application

<Render file="access/add-infrastructure-app" />

## 6. Configure SSH server

Next, configure your SSH server to trust the Cloudflare SSH CA. This allows Access to authenticate using short-lived certificates instead of traditional SSH keys.

### Generate a Cloudflare SSH CA

<Render file="ssh/ssh-proxy-ca-note" />

To generate a Cloudflare SSH CA and get its public key:

<Render file="ssh/ssh-proxy-ca" />

### Save the public key
<Render file="ssh/public-key" />

### Modify your SSHD config
<Render file="ssh/modify-sshd" />

:::note
For certain distributions, such as Amazon Linux 1 (based on RHEL), the certificate file permissions must be set to `600`. You can set file permissions with the following command:

```sh
chmod 600 /etc/ssh/ca.pub
```
:::

### Restart your SSH server
<Render file="ssh/restart-server" />

## 7. Connect as a user

Users can use any SSH client to connect to the target, as long as they are logged into the WARP client on their device. If the target is located within a particular virtual network, ensure that the WARP client is [connected to that virtual network](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/private-net/cloudflared/tunnel-virtual-networks/#connect-to-a-virtual-network) before initiating the connection. Users do not need to modify any SSH configs on their device. For example, to SSH from a terminal:

```sh
ssh <username>@<target IP>
```

SSH with Access for Infrastructure also supports `scp` and `rsync` commands. At this time, `sftp` is not supported.

To learn more about user connections, refer to the [Access for Infrastructure documentation](/cloudflare-one/applications/non-http/infrastructure-apps/#4-connect-as-a-user).

## SSH command logs

SSH command logs contain the actual SSH commands that a user ran on the target. These logs are encrypted using a public key provided by the customer and are not visible to Cloudflare.

### Enable SSH command logging

<Render file="ssh/upload-ssh-key" params={{ note: "" }} />

### Disable SSH command logging

To turn off SSH command logging, delete your uploaded public key:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Dashboard">

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Settings** > **Network** > **SSH encryption public key**.

2. Select **Remove**.

3. Select **Remove key** to confirm.

Cloudflare will stop logging SSH commands to your targets, as well as any commands subject to [Gateway Audit SSH](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/network-policies/ssh-logging/) policies.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

To delete the SSH encryption public key using the [API](/api/operations/zero-trust-update-audit-ssh-settings):

```sh
curl --request PUT https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/audit_ssh_settings \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--data '{
  "public_key": ""
}'
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### View SSH logs

SSH command logs are not visible from the dashboard itself and must be exported and decrypted.

To manually retrieve logs:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Logs** > **Access**.
2. Select a user who was allowed to access the target.
3. Select **Download** to download the session's command log.
4. <Render file="ssh/decrypt-ssh-log" />
