src/content/docs/durable-objects/api/base.mdx, before:

---
title: Durable Object Base Class
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem, GlossaryTooltip, Type, MetaInfo } from "~/components";

The `DurableObject` base class is an abstract class which all Durable Objects inherit from. This base class provides a set of optional methods, frequently referred to as handler methods, which can respond to events, for example a webSocketMessage when using the [WebSocket Hibernation API](#/durable-objects/best-practices/websockets/#websocket-hibernation-api). To provide a concrete example, here is a Durable Object `MyDurableObject` which extends `DurableObject` and implements the fetch handler to return "Hello, World!" to the calling Worker.

<TypeScriptExample>
```ts
export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(ctx: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {
		super(ctx, env);
	}

	async fetch(request: Request) {
		return new Response("Hello, World!");
	}
}
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Methods

### `fetch`

- <code>fetch(<Type text="Request"/>)</code>: <Type text="Response"/> | <Type text="Promise <Response>"/>

  - Takes an HTTP request object and returns an HTTP response object. This method allows the Durable Object to emulate an HTTP server where a Worker with a binding to that object is the client.

  - This method can be `async`.

### `alarm`

- <code>alarm()</code>: <Type text="Promise <void>"/>

  - See [Alarms](/durable-objects/api/alarms/).

### `webSocketMessage`

- <code> webSocketMessage(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, message{" "} <Type text="string | ArrayBuffer" />)</code>: <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when an accepted WebSocket receives a message.

  - This method can be `async`.

  - This method is not called for WebSocket control frames. The system will respond to an incoming [WebSocket protocol ping](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6455#section-5.5.2) automatically without interrupting hibernation.

### `webSocketClose`

- <code> webSocketClose(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, code <Type text="number" />,reason <Type text="string" />, wasClean <Type text="boolean" />)</code>: <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when a WebSocket is closed. `wasClean()` is true if the connection closed cleanly, false otherwise.

  - This method can be `async`.

### `webSocketError`

- <code> webSocketError(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, error <Type text="any" />)</code> : <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when any non-disconnection related errors occur.

  - This method can be `async`.

## Properties

### `DurableObjectState`

See [`DurableObjectState` documentation](/durable-objects/api/state/).

### `Env`

A list of bindings which are available to the Durable Object.

## Related resources

- Refer to [Use WebSockets](/durable-objects/best-practices/websockets/) for more information on examples of WebSocket methods and best practices.

Commit message:

Adding alarm handler method into DO base class.

src/content/docs/durable-objects/api/base.mdx, after:

---
title: Durable Object Base Class
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem, GlossaryTooltip, Type, MetaInfo } from "~/components";

The `DurableObject` base class is an abstract class which all Durable Objects inherit from. This base class provides a set of optional methods, frequently referred to as handler methods, which can respond to events, for example a webSocketMessage when using the [WebSocket Hibernation API](#/durable-objects/best-practices/websockets/#websocket-hibernation-api). To provide a concrete example, here is a Durable Object `MyDurableObject` which extends `DurableObject` and implements the fetch handler to return "Hello, World!" to the calling Worker.

<TypeScriptExample>
```ts
export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(ctx: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {
		super(ctx, env);
	}

	async fetch(request: Request) {
		return new Response("Hello, World!");
	}
}
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Methods

### `fetch`

- <code>fetch(<Type text="Request"/>)</code>: <Type text="Response"/> | <Type text="Promise <Response>"/>

  - Takes an HTTP request object and returns an HTTP response object. This method allows the Durable Object to emulate an HTTP server where a Worker with a binding to that object is the client.

  - This method can be `async`.

### `alarm`

- <code>alarm()</code>: <Type text="Promise <void>"/>

  - Called by the system when a scheduled alarm time is reached.

  - The `alarm()` handler has guaranteed at-least-once execution and will be retried upon failure using exponential backoff, starting at 2 second delays for up to 6 retries. Retries will be performed if the method fails with an uncaught exception.

  - This method can be `async`.

  - Refer to [Alarms](/durable-objects/api/alarms/#alarm) for more information.

### `webSocketMessage`

- <code> webSocketMessage(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, message{" "} <Type text="string | ArrayBuffer" />)</code>: <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when an accepted WebSocket receives a message.

  - This method can be `async`.

  - This method is not called for WebSocket control frames. The system will respond to an incoming [WebSocket protocol ping](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6455#section-5.5.2) automatically without interrupting hibernation.

### `webSocketClose`

- <code> webSocketClose(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, code <Type text="number" />,reason <Type text="string" />, wasClean <Type text="boolean" />)</code>: <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when a WebSocket is closed. `wasClean()` is true if the connection closed cleanly, false otherwise.

  - This method can be `async`.

### `webSocketError`

- <code> webSocketError(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, error <Type text="any" />)</code> : <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when any non-disconnection related errors occur.

  - This method can be `async`.

## Properties

### `DurableObjectState`

See [`DurableObjectState` documentation](/durable-objects/api/state/).

### `Env`

A list of bindings which are available to the Durable Object.

## Related resources

- Refer to [Use WebSockets](/durable-objects/best-practices/websockets/) for more information on examples of WebSocket methods and best practices.
