src/content/docs/dns/concepts.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Concepts
sidebar:
  order: 3
head:
  - tag: title
    content: DNS concepts

---

This page defines and articulates key concepts that are relevant to the Cloudflare DNS service and are used in this documentation. For more concepts and broader descriptions, consider the [Cloudflare Learning Center](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/what-is-dns/).

## Domain

Also known as domain name, a domain is the string of text that identifies a specific website, such as `google.com` or `facebook.com`. Every time you access a website from your web browser, a DNS query takes place and the domain name is mapped to the actual IP address where the website is [hosted](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/).

## Registrar

Before you can start using the Cloudflare DNS service, you must first have a domain. This is achieved by using a service called registrar. As explained in our [Learning Center](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/what-is-a-domain-name-registrar/), a registrar handles the reservation of domain names.

Very often the same company that offers domain registration also offers web hosting and DNS management.

You can register a domain name at coast through [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/). Every domain acquired through Cloudflare Registrar must also use Cloudflare as [primary authoritative DNS](#authoritative-dns).

## Nameserver

Although the resolution of a DNS query involves a number of different servers, in this documentation nameserver usually refers to the Cloudflare authoritative nameservers. As explained in the [article about DNS server types](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-server-types/), the authoritative nameserver is the last stop in the resolution of a DNS query.

Refer to [Nameservers](/dns/nameservers/) for details on the different nameserver offerings.

## Authoritative DNS

Authoritative DNS refers to the service whose nameservers provide the final information mapping a hostname (such as `example.com` or `blog.example.com`) to the IP address that hosts the corresponding content or resources.

This is important because the performance of such authoritative DNS services determine how available, resilient, and performant your website or application is. Cloudflare DNS is an authoritative DNS service leveraging Cloudflare's global network. Refer to [How Cloudflare works](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/) for details.

## DNS setups



## Zone

DNS zone is an administrative concept used for delegating control over DNS settings for different domains. You can read more about this in the [specific Learning Center article](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/dns-zone/).

For the purpose of this documentation, keep in mind that each domain added to a Cloudflare account is listed in the account home page as a zone. The exact properties and behaviors of your zone depend on its [DNS setup](/dns/zone-setups/).

## DNS records

DNS records are instructions that live in the authoritative DNS servers and provide information about a zone. This includes what IP address is associated with a particular domain, but can also cover many other use cases, such as directing emails to a mail server or validating ownership of a domain.

For more details about using DNS records within Cloudflare, refer to [Manage DNS records](/dns/manage-dns-records/how-to/create-dns-records/) and [DNS record types](/dns/manage-dns-records/reference/dns-record-types/).

## DNSSEC

DNSSEC stands for DNS Security Extensions. It increases security by adding cryptographic signatures to DNS records. These signatures can then be checked to verify that a record came from the correct DNS server, preventing anyone else from issuing false DNS records on your behalf and redirecting traffic intended for your domain. You can read more about it in the [article about DNS security](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-security/).

For help setting up DNSSEC in Cloudflare, refer to [Enable DNSSEC](/dns/dnssec/).

Commit message:

Fill in DNS setups concept, applying Primary more prominently

src/content/docs/dns/concepts.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Concepts
sidebar:
  order: 3
head:
  - tag: title
    content: DNS concepts

---

This page defines and articulates key concepts that are relevant to the Cloudflare DNS service and are used in this documentation. For more concepts and broader descriptions, consider the [Cloudflare Learning Center](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/what-is-dns/).

## Domain

Also known as domain name, a domain is the string of text that identifies a specific website, such as `google.com` or `facebook.com`. Every time you access a website from your web browser, a DNS query takes place and the domain name is mapped to the actual IP address where the website is [hosted](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/).

## Registrar

Before you can start using the Cloudflare DNS service, you must first have a domain. This is achieved by using a service called registrar. As explained in our [Learning Center](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/what-is-a-domain-name-registrar/), a registrar handles the reservation of domain names.

Very often the same company that offers domain registration also offers web hosting and DNS management.

You can register a domain name at coast through [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/). Every domain acquired through Cloudflare Registrar must also use Cloudflare as [primary authoritative DNS](#authoritative-dns).

## Nameserver

Although the resolution of a DNS query involves a number of different servers, in this documentation nameserver usually refers to the Cloudflare authoritative nameservers. As explained in the [article about DNS server types](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-server-types/), the authoritative nameserver is the last stop in the resolution of a DNS query.

Refer to [Nameservers](/dns/nameservers/) for details on the different nameserver offerings.

## Authoritative DNS

Authoritative DNS refers to the service whose nameservers provide the final information mapping a hostname (such as `example.com` or `blog.example.com`) to the IP address that hosts the corresponding content or resources.

This is important because the performance of such authoritative DNS services determine how available, resilient, and performant your website or application is. Cloudflare DNS is an authoritative DNS service leveraging Cloudflare's global network. Refer to [How Cloudflare works](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/) for details.

## DNS setups

It is also possible that one same company will use more than one DNS provider. Usually, this relates to making a domain even more resilient - if one provider faces an outage, the nameservers operated by the other DNS provider will most likely still be available.

In this context, you can have a primary DNS setup, when you use Cloudflare to manage your DNS records, or a [secondary DNS setup](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/), when your DNS records are managed on a different provider and Cloudflare simply receives zone transfers containing your DNS records.

When you have a primary DNS setup, you can either use only Cloudflare (also known as [Full setup](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/)), or you can use Cloudflare and another provider, where the other provider is the one to receive [outgoing zone transfers](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-primary/) from Cloudflare.

Finally, as Cloudflare also works as a [reverse proxy](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#how-cloudflare-works-as-a-reverse-proxy), partial (CNAME) setups can be used when you do not want Cloudflare to be [authoritative](#authoritative-dns) for your domain but you still want to proxy individual subdomains through Cloudflare.

## Zone

DNS zone is an administrative concept used for delegating control over DNS settings for different domains. You can read more about this in the [specific Learning Center article](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/dns-zone/).

For the purpose of this documentation, keep in mind that each domain added to a Cloudflare account is listed in the account home page as a zone. The exact properties and behaviors of your zone depend on its [DNS setup](/dns/zone-setups/).

## DNS records

DNS records are instructions that live in the authoritative DNS servers and provide information about a zone. This includes what IP address is associated with a particular domain, but can also cover many other use cases, such as directing emails to a mail server or validating ownership of a domain.

For more details about using DNS records within Cloudflare, refer to [Manage DNS records](/dns/manage-dns-records/how-to/create-dns-records/) and [DNS record types](/dns/manage-dns-records/reference/dns-record-types/).

## DNSSEC

DNSSEC stands for DNS Security Extensions. It increases security by adding cryptographic signatures to DNS records. These signatures can then be checked to verify that a record came from the correct DNS server, preventing anyone else from issuing false DNS records on your behalf and redirecting traffic intended for your domain. You can read more about it in the [article about DNS security](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-security/).

For help setting up DNSSEC in Cloudflare, refer to [Enable DNSSEC](/dns/dnssec/).
