src/content/docs/speed/optimization/content/compression.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Content compression
sidebar:
  order: 2
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Content compression | Brotli
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

Cloudflare compresses content in two ways: between Cloudflare and your website visitors and between Cloudflare and your origin server.

## Compression between Cloudflare and website visitors

In addition to Cloudflare's [default caching behavior](/cache/concepts/default-cache-behavior/), Cloudflare supports Gzip, Brotli, and Zstandard compression when delivering content to website visitors.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
accTitle: Compressed responses sent to website visitor
accDescr: Cloudflare can send responses to visitors using Gzip compression, Brotli compression, or no compression.

A[Visitor browser]
B((Cloudflare))
C[(Origin server)]

A == "Request" ==> B -.-> C
C -.-> B == "Response<br>(Gzip / Brotli / Zstandard / No compression)" ==> A

style A stroke-width: 2px
style B stroke: orange,fill: orange,color: black
style C stroke-dasharray: 5 5
linkStyle 0,3 stroke-width: 2px
linkStyle 1,2 stroke-width: 1px
```

:::note
Customers can enable Zstandard compression through [Compression Rules](/rules/compression-rules/).
:::

If supported by visitors' web browsers, Cloudflare will return Gzip, Brotli, or Zstandard-encoded responses for the following content types:

```
text/html
text/richtext
text/plain
text/css
text/x-script
text/x-component
text/x-java-source
text/x-markdown
application/javascript
application/x-javascript
text/javascript
text/js
image/x-icon
image/vnd.microsoft.icon
application/x-perl
application/x-httpd-cgi
text/xml
application/xml
application/rss+xml
application/vnd.api+json
application/x-protobuf
application/json
multipart/bag
multipart/mixed
application/xhtml+xml
font/ttf
font/otf
font/x-woff
image/svg+xml
application/vnd.ms-fontobject
application/ttf
application/x-ttf
application/otf
application/x-otf
application/truetype
application/opentype
application/x-opentype
application/font-woff
application/eot
application/font
application/font-sfnt
application/wasm
application/javascript-binast
application/manifest+json
application/ld+json
application/graphql+json
application/geo+json
```

Cloudflare's global network can deliver content to website visitors using Gzip compression, Brotli compression, Zstandard compression, or no compression, depending on:

- The values visitors provide in the `accept-encoding` request header.
- Your [Cloudflare plan](#between-visitors-and-cloudflare).
- Any configured [compression rule](/rules/compression-rules/) that matches incoming requests.

For responses with error status codes, Cloudflare will only compress responses if their error status code is `403` or `404`. For successful response status codes, Cloudflare will only compress responses if their status code is `200`. Responses with other status codes will not be compressed.

You can override Cloudflare's default compression behavior using [Compression Rules](/rules/compression-rules/).

:::caution[Minimum response size for compression]

Cloudflare will only apply compression to responses with a minimum size when sending them to website visitors:

- For Gzip, responses must have a minimum size of 48 bytes.
- For Brotli and Zstandard, responses must have a minimum size of 50 bytes.

Smaller responses will not be compressed, regardless of their content type.

:::

---

## Content compression from origin servers to the Cloudflare network

When requesting content from your origin server, Cloudflare supports Brotli compression, Gzip compression, or no compression.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
accTitle: Compressed responses sent from the origin server
accDescr: Cloudflare accepts responses from origin server using Brotli compression, Gzip compression, or no compression.

A[Visitor browser]
B((Cloudflare))
C[(Origin server)]

A -.-> B == "Request<br>Accept-Encoding: br, gzip" ==> C
C == "Response<br>(Brotli / Gzip / No compression)" ==> B -.-> A

style A stroke-dasharray: 5 5
style B stroke: orange,fill: orange,color: black
style C stroke-width: 2px
linkStyle 1,2 stroke-width: 2px
linkStyle 0,3 stroke-width: 1px
```

If your origin server responds to a Cloudflare request using Brotli/Gzip compression, we will keep the same compression in the response sent to the website visitor if:

- You include a `content-encoding` header in your server response mentioning the compression being used (`br` or `gzip`).
- The visitor browser (or client) supports the compression algorithm.
- You do not enable Cloudflare features that change the response content (refer to [Notes about end-to-end compression](#notes-about-end-to-end-compression) for details).

Cloudflare's reverse proxy can also convert between compressed formats and uncompressed formats. Cloudflare can receive content from your origin server with Brotli or Gzip compression and serve it to visitors uncompressed (or vice versa), independently of caching.

If you do not want a particular response from your origin to be encoded with Brotli/Gzip when delivered to website visitors, you can disable this by including a `cache-control: no-transform` HTTP header in the response from your origin web server.

:::caution
Cloudflare will take into consideration the `accept-encoding` header value in website visitors' requests when sending responses to those visitors. However, when requesting content from your origin server, Cloudflare will send a different `Accept-Encoding` header, supporting Brotli and Gzip compression.
:::

---

<Render file="brotli-compression-warning" />

## Compression methods by plan 

### Between visitors and Cloudflare

By default, Cloudflare uses the following compression methods for content delivery, depending on the zone plan. However, the actual compression applied may also depend on what the visitor's browser requests via the `accept-encoding` header.

- Free Plan: Content is compressed by default using Zstandard.
- Pro and Business Plans: Content is compressed by default using Brotli.
- Enterprise Plan: Content is compressed by default using Gzip.

### Between Cloudflare and the origin server

On all plans, Cloudflare requests content from the origin server using the `accept-encoding: br, gzip` header. This means that Cloudflare asks the origin to send the content compressed using Brotli or Gzip, depending on which method the origin server supports.

Commit message:

[Speed] Notes about the Content-Length header in responses

src/content/docs/speed/optimization/content/compression.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Content compression
sidebar:
  order: 2
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Content compression | Brotli
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

Cloudflare compresses content in two ways: between Cloudflare and your website visitors and between Cloudflare and your origin server.

## Compression between Cloudflare and website visitors

In addition to Cloudflare's [default caching behavior](/cache/concepts/default-cache-behavior/), Cloudflare supports Gzip, Brotli, and Zstandard compression when delivering content to website visitors.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
accTitle: Compressed responses sent to website visitor
accDescr: Cloudflare can send responses to visitors using Gzip compression, Brotli compression, or no compression.

A[Visitor browser]
B((Cloudflare))
C[(Origin server)]

A == "Request" ==> B -.-> C
C -.-> B == "Response<br>(Gzip / Brotli / Zstandard / No compression)" ==> A

style A stroke-width: 2px
style B stroke: orange,fill: orange,color: black
style C stroke-dasharray: 5 5
linkStyle 0,3 stroke-width: 2px
linkStyle 1,2 stroke-width: 1px
```

:::note
Customers can enable Zstandard compression through [Compression Rules](/rules/compression-rules/).
:::

If supported by visitors' web browsers, Cloudflare will return Gzip, Brotli, or Zstandard-encoded responses for the following content types:

```
text/html
text/richtext
text/plain
text/css
text/x-script
text/x-component
text/x-java-source
text/x-markdown
application/javascript
application/x-javascript
text/javascript
text/js
image/x-icon
image/vnd.microsoft.icon
application/x-perl
application/x-httpd-cgi
text/xml
application/xml
application/rss+xml
application/vnd.api+json
application/x-protobuf
application/json
multipart/bag
multipart/mixed
application/xhtml+xml
font/ttf
font/otf
font/x-woff
image/svg+xml
application/vnd.ms-fontobject
application/ttf
application/x-ttf
application/otf
application/x-otf
application/truetype
application/opentype
application/x-opentype
application/font-woff
application/eot
application/font
application/font-sfnt
application/wasm
application/javascript-binast
application/manifest+json
application/ld+json
application/graphql+json
application/geo+json
```

Cloudflare's global network can deliver content to website visitors using Gzip compression, Brotli compression, Zstandard compression, or no compression, depending on:

- The values visitors provide in the `accept-encoding` request header.
- Your [Cloudflare plan](#between-visitors-and-cloudflare).
- Any configured [compression rule](/rules/compression-rules/) that matches incoming requests.

For responses with error status codes, Cloudflare will only compress responses if their error status code is `403` or `404`. For successful response status codes, Cloudflare will only compress responses if their status code is `200`. Responses with other status codes will not be compressed.

You can override Cloudflare's default compression behavior using [Compression Rules](/rules/compression-rules/).

:::caution[Minimum response size for compression]

Cloudflare will only apply compression to responses with a minimum size when sending them to website visitors:

- For Gzip, responses must have a minimum size of 48 bytes.
- For Brotli and Zstandard, responses must have a minimum size of 50 bytes.

Smaller responses will not be compressed, regardless of their content type.

:::

---

## Content compression from origin servers to the Cloudflare network

When requesting content from your origin server, Cloudflare supports Brotli compression, Gzip compression, or no compression.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
accTitle: Compressed responses sent from the origin server
accDescr: Cloudflare accepts responses from origin server using Brotli compression, Gzip compression, or no compression.

A[Visitor browser]
B((Cloudflare))
C[(Origin server)]

A -.-> B == "Request<br>Accept-Encoding: br, gzip" ==> C
C == "Response<br>(Brotli / Gzip / No compression)" ==> B -.-> A

style A stroke-dasharray: 5 5
style B stroke: orange,fill: orange,color: black
style C stroke-width: 2px
linkStyle 1,2 stroke-width: 2px
linkStyle 0,3 stroke-width: 1px
```

If your origin server responds to a Cloudflare request using Brotli/Gzip compression, we will keep the same compression in the response sent to the website visitor if:

- You include a `content-encoding` header in your server response mentioning the compression being used (`br` or `gzip`).
- The visitor browser (or client) supports the compression algorithm.
- You do not enable Cloudflare features that change the response content (refer to [Notes about end-to-end compression](#notes-about-end-to-end-compression) for details).

Cloudflare's reverse proxy can also convert between compressed formats and uncompressed formats. Cloudflare can receive content from your origin server with Brotli or Gzip compression and serve it to visitors uncompressed (or vice versa), independently of caching.

If you do not want a particular response from your origin to be encoded with Brotli/Gzip when delivered to website visitors, you can disable this by including a `cache-control: no-transform` HTTP header in the response from your origin web server.

:::caution
Cloudflare will take into consideration the `accept-encoding` header value in website visitors' requests when sending responses to those visitors. However, when requesting content from your origin server, Cloudflare will send a different `Accept-Encoding` header, supporting Brotli and Gzip compression.
:::

### Content-Length header handling

When Cloudflare compresses a response, it may omit the `Content-Length` HTTP header to avoid delivering incorrect length information caused by dynamic transformations. To preserve the `Content-Length` header, add `cache-control: no-transform` to the origin server's response. This directive prevents Cloudflare from altering compression on responses, allowing the `Content-Length` header to pass through as-is. The `cache-control: no-transform` header must be set by the origin — it cannot be added by client requests.

---

<Render file="brotli-compression-warning" />

## Compression methods by plan

### Between visitors and Cloudflare

By default, Cloudflare uses the following compression methods for content delivery, depending on the zone plan. However, the actual compression applied may also depend on what the visitor's browser requests via the `accept-encoding` header.

- Free Plan: Content is compressed by default using Zstandard.
- Pro and Business Plans: Content is compressed by default using Brotli.
- Enterprise Plan: Content is compressed by default using Gzip.

### Between Cloudflare and the origin server

On all plans, Cloudflare requests content from the origin server using the `accept-encoding: br, gzip` header. This means that Cloudflare asks the origin to send the content compressed using Brotli or Gzip, depending on which method the origin server supports.
