src/content/docs/logs/get-started/api-configuration.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: API configuration
sidebar:
  order: 42

---

## Endpoints

The table below summarizes the job operations available for both Logpush and Edge Log Delivery jobs. Make sure that Account-scoped datasets use `/accounts/{account_id}` and Zone-scoped datasets use `/zone/{zone_id}`. For more information, refer to the [Log fields](/logs/reference/log-fields/) page.

You can locate `{zone_id}` and `{account_id}` arguments based on the [Find zone and account IDs](/fundamentals/setup/find-account-and-zone-ids/) page.
The `{job_id}` argument is numeric, like 123456.
The `{dataset_id}` argument indicates the log category (such as `http_requests` or `audit_logs`).



| Operation | Description                                 | API                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `POST`    | Create job                                  | [Zone-scoped job](/api/operations/post-zones-zone_id-logpush-jobs) / [Account-scoped job](/api/operations/post-accounts-account_id-logpush-jobs)                                                 |
| `GET`     | Retrieve job details                        | [Zone-scoped job](/api/operations/get-zones-zone_id-logpush-jobs-job_id) / [Account-scoped job](/api/operations/get-accounts-account_id-logpush-jobs-job_id)                                     |
| `GET`     | Retrieve all jobs for all datasets          | [Zone-scoped jobs](/api/operations/get-zones-zone_id-logpush-jobs) / [Account-scoped jobs](/api/operations/get-accounts-account_id-logpush-jobs)                                                 |
| `GET`     | Retrieve all jobs for a dataset             | [Zone-scoped jobs](/api/operations/get-zones-zone_id-logpush-datasets-dataset_id-jobs) / [Account-scoped jobs](/api/operations/get-accounts-account_id-logpush-datasets-dataset_id-jobs)         |
| `GET`     | Retrieve all available fields for a dataset | [Zone-scoped fields](/api/operations/get-zones-zone_id-logpush-datasets-dataset_id-fields) / [Account-scoped fields](/api/operations/get-accounts-account_id-logpush-datasets-dataset_id-fields) |
| `PUT`     | Update job                                  | [Zone-scoped job](/api/operations/put-zones-zone_id-logpush-jobs-job_id) / [Account-scoped job](/api/operations/put-accounts-account_id-logpush-jobs-job_id)                                     |
| `DELETE`  | Delete job                                  | [Zone-scoped job](/api/operations/delete-zones-zone_id-logpush-jobs-job_id) / [Account-scoped job](/api/operations/delete-accounts-account_id-logpush-jobs-job_id)                               |
| `POST`    | Check whether destination exists            | [Zone-scoped job](/api/operations/post-zones-zone_id-logpush-validate-destination-exists) / [Account-scoped job](/api/operations/delete-accounts-account_id-logpush-validate-destination-exists) |
| `POST`    | Get ownership challenge                     | [Zone-scoped job](/api/operations/post-zones-zone_id-logpush-ownership) / [Account-scoped job](/api/operations/post-accounts-account_id-logpush-ownership)                                       |
| `POST`    | Validate ownership challenge                | [Zone-scoped job](/api/operations/post-zones-zone_id-logpush-ownership-validate) / [Account-scoped job](/api/operations/post-accounts-account_id-logpush-ownership-validate)                     |
| `POST`    | Validate log options                        | [Zone-scoped job](/api/operations/post-zones-zone_id-logpush-validate-origin) / [Account-scoped job](/api/operations/post-accounts-account_id-logpush-validate-origin)                           |


For concrete examples, refer to the tutorials in [Logpush examples](/logs/tutorials/examples/).

## Connecting

The Logpush API requires credentials like any other Cloudflare API.

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/jobs \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>"
```

## Ownership

Before creating a new job, ownership of the destination must be proven.

To issue an ownership challenge token to your destination:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/ownership \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "destination_conf": "s3://<BUCKET_PATH>?region=us-west-2"
}'
```

A challenge file will be written to the destination, and the filename will be in the response (the filename may be expressed as a path, if appropriate for your destination):

```json
{
  "errors": [],
  "messages": [],
  "result": {
    "valid": true,
    "message": "",
    "filename": "<PATH_TO_CHALLENGE_FILE>.txt"
  },
  "success": true
}
```

You will need to provide the token contained in the file when creating a job.

:::note[Note]


When using Sumo Logic, you may find it helpful to have [Live Tail](https://help.sumologic.com/05Search/Live-Tail/About-Live-Tail) open to see the challenge file as soon as it is uploaded.


:::

## Destination

You can specify your cloud service provider destination via the required **destination\_conf** parameter.

:::note[Note]

As of May 2022, defining a unique destination for a Logpush job will no longer be required. As this constraint has been removed, you can now have more than one job writing to the same destination. 
:::

The `destination_conf` parameter must follow this format:

```
<scheme>://<destination-address>
```

Supported schemes are listed below, each tailored to specific providers such as
R2, S3, etc. Additionally, generic use cases like `https` are also covered:

* `r2`,
* `gs`,
* `s3`,
* `sumo`,
* `https`,
* `azure`,
* `splunk`,
* `datadog`.

The `destination-address` should generally be provided by the destination
provider. However, for certain providers, we require the `destination-address`
to follow a specific format:

* **Cloudflare R2** (scheme `r2`): bucket path + account ID + R2 access key ID + R2 secret access key; for example: `r2://<BUCKET_PATH>?account-id=<ACCOUNT_ID>&access-key-id=<R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID>&secret-access-key=<R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>`
* **AWS S3** (scheme `s3`): bucket + optional directory + region + optional encryption parameter (if required by your policy); for example: `s3://bucket/[dir]?region=<REGION>[&sse=AES256]`
* **Datadog** (scheme `datadog`): Datadog endpoint URL + Datadog API key + optional parameters; for example: `datadog://<DATADOG_ENDPOINT_URL>?header_DD-API-KEY=<DATADOG_API_KEY>&ddsource=cloudflare&service=<SERVICE>&host=<HOST>&ddtags=<TAGS>`
* **Google Cloud Storage** (scheme `gs`): bucket + optional directory; for example: `gs://bucket/[dir]`
* **Microsoft Azure** (scheme `azure`): service-level SAS URL with `https` replaced by `azure` + optional directory added before query string; for example: `azure://<BLOB_CONTAINER_PATH>/[dir]?<QUERY_STRING>`
* **New Relic** (use scheme `https`): New Relic endpoint URL which is `https://log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1` for US or `https://log-api.eu.newrelic.com/log/v1` for EU + a license key + a format; for example: for US `"https://log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1?Api-Key=<NR_LICENSE_KEY>&format=cloudflare"` and for EU `"https://log-api.eu.newrelic.com/log/v1?Api-Key=<NR_LICENSE_KEY>&format=cloudflare"`
* **Splunk** (scheme `splunk`): Splunk endpoint URL + Splunk channel ID + insecure-skip-verify flag + Splunk sourcetype + Splunk authorization token; for example: `splunk://<SPLUNK_ENDPOINT_URL>?channel=<SPLUNK_CHANNEL_ID>&insecure-skip-verify=<INSECURE_SKIP_VERIFY>&sourcetype=<SOURCE_TYPE>&header_Authorization=<SPLUNK_AUTH_TOKEN>`
* **Sumo Logic** (scheme `sumo`): HTTP source address URL with `https` replaced by `sumo`; for example: `sumo://<SUMO_ENDPOINT_URL>/receiver/v1/http/<UNIQUE_HTTP_COLLECTOR_CODE>`

For **R2**, **S3**, **Google Cloud Storage**, and **Azure**, you can organize logs into daily subdirectories by including the special placeholder `{DATE}` in the URL path. This placeholder will automatically be replaced with the date in the `YYYYMMDD` format (for example, `20180523`).

For example:

* `s3://mybucket/logs/{DATE}?region=us-east-1&sse=AES256`
* `azure://myblobcontainer/logs/{DATE}?[QueryString]`

This approach is useful when you want your logs grouped by day.


For more information on the value for your cloud storage provider, consult the following conventions:

* [AWS S3 CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/index.html) (S3Uri path argument type)
* [Google Cloud Storage CLI](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil) (Syntax for accessing resources)
* [Microsoft Azure Shared Access Signature](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview)
* [Sumo Logic HTTP Source](https://help.sumologic.com/03Send-Data/Sources/02Sources-for-Hosted-Collectors/HTTP-Source)

To check if a destination is already in use:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/validate/destination/exists \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "destination_conf": "s3://foo"
}'
```

Response

```json
{
  "errors": [],
  "messages": [],
  "result": {
    "exists": false
  },
  "success": true
}
```

:::

## Kind

The kind parameter (optional) is used to differentiate between Logpush and Edge Log Delivery jobs. For Logpush jobs, this parameter can be left empty or omitted. For Edge Log Delivery jobs, set `"kind": "edge"`. Currently, Edge Log Delivery is only supported for the `http_requests` dataset.

:::note[Note]


The kind parameter cannot be used to update existing Logpush jobs. You can only specify the kind parameter when creating a new job.


:::

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/jobs \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "name": "<DOMAIN_NAME>",
  "destination_conf": "s3://<BUCKET_PATH>?region=us-west-2",
  "dataset": "http_requests",
  "output_options": {
    "field_names": ["ClientIP", "ClientRequesrHost", "ClientRequestMethod", " ClientRequestURI", "EdgeEndTimestamp", "EdgeResponseBytes", "EdgeResponseStatus", "EdgeStartTimestamp","RayID"],
    "timestamp_format": "rfc3339"
  },
  "kind": "edge"
}'
```

## Options

Logpull\_options has been replaced with Custom Log Formatting output\_options. Please refer to the [Log Output Options](/logs/reference/log-output-options/) documentation for instructions on configuring these options and updating your existing jobs to use these options.

If you are still using logpull\_options, here are the options that you can customize:

1. **Fields** (optional): Refer to [Log fields](/logs/reference/log-fields/) for the currently available fields. The list of fields is also accessible directly from the API: `https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/datasets/{dataset_id}/fields`. Default fields: `https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/datasets/{dataset_id}/fields/default`.
2. **Timestamp format** (optional): The format in which timestamp fields will be returned. Value options: `unixnano` (default), `unix`, `rfc3339`.
3. **Redaction for CVE-2021-44228** (optional): This option will replace every occurrence of `${` with `x{`.  To enable it, set `CVE-2021-44228=true`.

:::note[Note]

The **CVE-2021-44228** parameter can only be set through the API at this time. Updating your Logpush job through the dashboard will set this option to false. 
:::

To check if the selected **logpull\_options** are valid:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/validate/origin \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "logpull_options": "fields=RayID,ClientIP,EdgeStartTimestamp&timestamps=rfc3339&CVE-2021-44228=true",
  "dataset": "http_requests"
}'
```

Response

```json
{
  "errors": [],
  "messages": [],
  "result": {
    "valid": true,
    "message": ""
  },
  "success": true
}
```

## Filter

Use filters to select the events to include and/or remove from your logs. For more information, refer to [Filters](/logs/reference/filters/).

## Sampling rate

Value can range from `0.0` (exclusive) to `1.0` (inclusive). `sample=0.1` means `return 10% (1 in 10) of all records`. The default value is `1`, meaning logs will be unsampled.

## Max Upload Parameters

These parameters can be used to gain control of batch size in the case that a destination has specific requirements. Files will be sent based on whichever parameter is hit first. If these options are not set, the system uses our internal defaults of 30s, 100k records, or the destinations globally defined limits.

1. **max\_upload\_bytes** (optional): The maximum uncompressed file size of a batch of logs. This setting value must be between 5 MB and 1 GB. Note that you cannot set a minimum file size; this means that log files may be much smaller than this batch size.
2. **max\_upload\_records** (optional): The maximum number of log lines per batch. This setting must be between 1,000 and 1,000,000 lines. Note that you cannot specify a minimum number of log lines per batch; this means that log files may contain many fewer lines than this.
3. **max\_upload\_interval\_seconds** (optional): The maximum interval in seconds for log batches. This setting must be between 30 and 300 seconds. Note that you cannot specify a minimum interval for log batches; this means that log files may be sent in shorter intervals than this.

:::note[Note]

Parameters **max\_upload\_bytes** and **max\_upload\_records** are not configurable for Edge Log Delivery. 
:::

## Custom fields

You can add custom fields to your HTTP request log entries in the form of HTTP request headers, HTTP response headers, and cookies. Custom fields configuration applies to all the Logpush jobs in a zone that use the HTTP requests dataset. To learn more, refer to [Custom fields](/logs/reference/custom-fields/).

## Audit

The following Logpush actions are recorded in **Cloudflare Audit Logs**: create, update, and delete job.

Commit message:

update API documentation links
Updates all previous documentation links with the new structure

src/content/docs/logs/get-started/api-configuration.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: API configuration
sidebar:
  order: 42

---

## Endpoints

The table below summarizes the job operations available for both Logpush and Edge Log Delivery jobs. Make sure that Account-scoped datasets use `/accounts/{account_id}` and Zone-scoped datasets use `/zone/{zone_id}`. For more information, refer to the [Log fields](/logs/reference/log-fields/) page.

You can locate `{zone_id}` and `{account_id}` arguments based on the [Find zone and account IDs](/fundamentals/setup/find-account-and-zone-ids/) page.
The `{job_id}` argument is numeric, like 123456.
The `{dataset_id}` argument indicates the log category (such as `http_requests` or `audit_logs`).



| Operation | Description                                 | API                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `POST`    | Create job                                  | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/jobs/methods/create/)                                             |
| `GET`     | Retrieve job details                        | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/datasets/subresources/jobs/methods/get/)                                     |
| `GET`     | Retrieve all jobs for all datasets          | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/jobs/methods/list/)                                                 |
| `GET`     | Retrieve all jobs for a dataset             | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/datasets/subresources/jobs/methods/get/)        |
| `GET`     | Retrieve all available fields for a dataset | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/datasets/subresources/fields/methods/get/) |
| `PUT`     | Update job                                  | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/jobs/methods/update/)                                      |
| `DELETE`  | Delete job                                  | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/jobs/methods/delete/)                           |
| `POST`    | Check whether destination exists            | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/validate/methods/destination/) |
| `POST`    | Get ownership challenge                     | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/ownership/methods/validate/)                                      |
| `POST`    | Validate ownership challenge                | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/ownership/methods/validate/)                      |
| `POST`    | Validate log options                        | [Documentation](/api/resources/logpush/subresources/validate/methods/origin/)                           |


For concrete examples, refer to the tutorials in [Logpush examples](/logs/tutorials/examples/).

## Connecting

The Logpush API requires credentials like any other Cloudflare API.

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/jobs \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>"
```

## Ownership

Before creating a new job, ownership of the destination must be proven.

To issue an ownership challenge token to your destination:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/ownership \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "destination_conf": "s3://<BUCKET_PATH>?region=us-west-2"
}'
```

A challenge file will be written to the destination, and the filename will be in the response (the filename may be expressed as a path, if appropriate for your destination):

```json
{
  "errors": [],
  "messages": [],
  "result": {
    "valid": true,
    "message": "",
    "filename": "<PATH_TO_CHALLENGE_FILE>.txt"
  },
  "success": true
}
```

You will need to provide the token contained in the file when creating a job.

:::note[Note]


When using Sumo Logic, you may find it helpful to have [Live Tail](https://help.sumologic.com/05Search/Live-Tail/About-Live-Tail) open to see the challenge file as soon as it is uploaded.


:::

## Destination

You can specify your cloud service provider destination via the required **destination\_conf** parameter.

:::note[Note]

As of May 2022, defining a unique destination for a Logpush job will no longer be required. As this constraint has been removed, you can now have more than one job writing to the same destination.
:::

The `destination_conf` parameter must follow this format:

```
<scheme>://<destination-address>
```

Supported schemes are listed below, each tailored to specific providers such as
R2, S3, etc. Additionally, generic use cases like `https` are also covered:

* `r2`,
* `gs`,
* `s3`,
* `sumo`,
* `https`,
* `azure`,
* `splunk`,
* `datadog`.

The `destination-address` should generally be provided by the destination
provider. However, for certain providers, we require the `destination-address`
to follow a specific format:

* **Cloudflare R2** (scheme `r2`): bucket path + account ID + R2 access key ID + R2 secret access key; for example: `r2://<BUCKET_PATH>?account-id=<ACCOUNT_ID>&access-key-id=<R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID>&secret-access-key=<R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>`
* **AWS S3** (scheme `s3`): bucket + optional directory + region + optional encryption parameter (if required by your policy); for example: `s3://bucket/[dir]?region=<REGION>[&sse=AES256]`
* **Datadog** (scheme `datadog`): Datadog endpoint URL + Datadog API key + optional parameters; for example: `datadog://<DATADOG_ENDPOINT_URL>?header_DD-API-KEY=<DATADOG_API_KEY>&ddsource=cloudflare&service=<SERVICE>&host=<HOST>&ddtags=<TAGS>`
* **Google Cloud Storage** (scheme `gs`): bucket + optional directory; for example: `gs://bucket/[dir]`
* **Microsoft Azure** (scheme `azure`): service-level SAS URL with `https` replaced by `azure` + optional directory added before query string; for example: `azure://<BLOB_CONTAINER_PATH>/[dir]?<QUERY_STRING>`
* **New Relic** (use scheme `https`): New Relic endpoint URL which is `https://log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1` for US or `https://log-api.eu.newrelic.com/log/v1` for EU + a license key + a format; for example: for US `"https://log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1?Api-Key=<NR_LICENSE_KEY>&format=cloudflare"` and for EU `"https://log-api.eu.newrelic.com/log/v1?Api-Key=<NR_LICENSE_KEY>&format=cloudflare"`
* **Splunk** (scheme `splunk`): Splunk endpoint URL + Splunk channel ID + insecure-skip-verify flag + Splunk sourcetype + Splunk authorization token; for example: `splunk://<SPLUNK_ENDPOINT_URL>?channel=<SPLUNK_CHANNEL_ID>&insecure-skip-verify=<INSECURE_SKIP_VERIFY>&sourcetype=<SOURCE_TYPE>&header_Authorization=<SPLUNK_AUTH_TOKEN>`
* **Sumo Logic** (scheme `sumo`): HTTP source address URL with `https` replaced by `sumo`; for example: `sumo://<SUMO_ENDPOINT_URL>/receiver/v1/http/<UNIQUE_HTTP_COLLECTOR_CODE>`

For **R2**, **S3**, **Google Cloud Storage**, and **Azure**, you can organize logs into daily subdirectories by including the special placeholder `{DATE}` in the URL path. This placeholder will automatically be replaced with the date in the `YYYYMMDD` format (for example, `20180523`).

For example:

* `s3://mybucket/logs/{DATE}?region=us-east-1&sse=AES256`
* `azure://myblobcontainer/logs/{DATE}?[QueryString]`

This approach is useful when you want your logs grouped by day.


For more information on the value for your cloud storage provider, consult the following conventions:

* [AWS S3 CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/index.html) (S3Uri path argument type)
* [Google Cloud Storage CLI](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil) (Syntax for accessing resources)
* [Microsoft Azure Shared Access Signature](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview)
* [Sumo Logic HTTP Source](https://help.sumologic.com/03Send-Data/Sources/02Sources-for-Hosted-Collectors/HTTP-Source)

To check if a destination is already in use:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/validate/destination/exists \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "destination_conf": "s3://foo"
}'
```

Response

```json
{
  "errors": [],
  "messages": [],
  "result": {
    "exists": false
  },
  "success": true
}
```

:::

## Kind

The kind parameter (optional) is used to differentiate between Logpush and Edge Log Delivery jobs. For Logpush jobs, this parameter can be left empty or omitted. For Edge Log Delivery jobs, set `"kind": "edge"`. Currently, Edge Log Delivery is only supported for the `http_requests` dataset.

:::note[Note]


The kind parameter cannot be used to update existing Logpush jobs. You can only specify the kind parameter when creating a new job.


:::

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/jobs \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "name": "<DOMAIN_NAME>",
  "destination_conf": "s3://<BUCKET_PATH>?region=us-west-2",
  "dataset": "http_requests",
  "output_options": {
    "field_names": ["ClientIP", "ClientRequesrHost", "ClientRequestMethod", " ClientRequestURI", "EdgeEndTimestamp", "EdgeResponseBytes", "EdgeResponseStatus", "EdgeStartTimestamp","RayID"],
    "timestamp_format": "rfc3339"
  },
  "kind": "edge"
}'
```

## Options

Logpull\_options has been replaced with Custom Log Formatting output\_options. Please refer to the [Log Output Options](/logs/reference/log-output-options/) documentation for instructions on configuring these options and updating your existing jobs to use these options.

If you are still using logpull\_options, here are the options that you can customize:

1. **Fields** (optional): Refer to [Log fields](/logs/reference/log-fields/) for the currently available fields. The list of fields is also accessible directly from the API: `https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/datasets/{dataset_id}/fields`. Default fields: `https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/datasets/{dataset_id}/fields/default`.
2. **Timestamp format** (optional): The format in which timestamp fields will be returned. Value options: `unixnano` (default), `unix`, `rfc3339`.
3. **Redaction for CVE-2021-44228** (optional): This option will replace every occurrence of `${` with `x{`.  To enable it, set `CVE-2021-44228=true`.

:::note[Note]

The **CVE-2021-44228** parameter can only be set through the API at this time. Updating your Logpush job through the dashboard will set this option to false.
:::

To check if the selected **logpull\_options** are valid:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/validate/origin \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "logpull_options": "fields=RayID,ClientIP,EdgeStartTimestamp&timestamps=rfc3339&CVE-2021-44228=true",
  "dataset": "http_requests"
}'
```

Response

```json
{
  "errors": [],
  "messages": [],
  "result": {
    "valid": true,
    "message": ""
  },
  "success": true
}
```

## Filter

Use filters to select the events to include and/or remove from your logs. For more information, refer to [Filters](/logs/reference/filters/).

## Sampling rate

Value can range from `0.0` (exclusive) to `1.0` (inclusive). `sample=0.1` means `return 10% (1 in 10) of all records`. The default value is `1`, meaning logs will be unsampled.

## Max Upload Parameters

These parameters can be used to gain control of batch size in the case that a destination has specific requirements. Files will be sent based on whichever parameter is hit first. If these options are not set, the system uses our internal defaults of 30s, 100k records, or the destinations globally defined limits.

1. **max\_upload\_bytes** (optional): The maximum uncompressed file size of a batch of logs. This setting value must be between 5 MB and 1 GB. Note that you cannot set a minimum file size; this means that log files may be much smaller than this batch size.
2. **max\_upload\_records** (optional): The maximum number of log lines per batch. This setting must be between 1,000 and 1,000,000 lines. Note that you cannot specify a minimum number of log lines per batch; this means that log files may contain many fewer lines than this.
3. **max\_upload\_interval\_seconds** (optional): The maximum interval in seconds for log batches. This setting must be between 30 and 300 seconds. Note that you cannot specify a minimum interval for log batches; this means that log files may be sent in shorter intervals than this.

:::note[Note]

Parameters **max\_upload\_bytes** and **max\_upload\_records** are not configurable for Edge Log Delivery.
:::

## Custom fields

You can add custom fields to your HTTP request log entries in the form of HTTP request headers, HTTP response headers, and cookies. Custom fields configuration applies to all the Logpush jobs in a zone that use the HTTP requests dataset. To learn more, refer to [Custom fields](/logs/reference/custom-fields/).

## Audit

The following Logpush actions are recorded in **Cloudflare Audit Logs**: create, update, and delete job.
